# @turf/nearest-point-on-line

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## nearestPointOnLine

Returns the nearest point on a line to a given point.

If any of the segments in the input line string are antipodal and therefore
have an undefined arc, this function will instead return that the point lies
on the line.

⚠️ We have begun the process of migrating to different return properties for
this function. The new properties we recommend using as of v7.4 are:

*   lineStringIndex - point was found on the nth LineString of an input MultiLineString. Previously `multiFeatureIndex`
*   segmentIndex - point was found on the nth segment of the above LineString. Previously `index`
*   totalDistance - distance from the start of the overall MultiLineString. Previously `location`
*   lineDistance - distance from the start of the relevant LineString
*   segmentDistance - distance from the start of the relevant segment
*   pointDistance - distance between found point is from input reference point. Previously `dist`

multiFeatureIndex, index, location, and dist continue to work as previously
until at least the next major release.

`segmentIndex` always refers to the segment on which the nearest point was
found (the segment starting at `coords[segmentIndex]`). When the nearest
point lands exactly on a shared vertex it is *not* advanced to the following
segment. Callers that relied on the previous "favour the next segment"
behaviour (for example turn-by-turn navigation) can reconstruct it with the
[atEndOfSegment][1], [atEndOfLineString][2] and [hasNextSegment][3]
helpers exported by this package.

### Parameters

*   `lines` **([Geometry][4] | [Feature][5]<([LineString][6] | [MultiLineString][7])>)** Lines to snap to
*   `inputPoint` **([Geometry][4] | [Feature][5]<[Point][8]> | [Array][9]<[number][10]>)** Point to snap from
*   `options` **[Object][11]** Optional parameters (optional, default `{}`)

    *   `options.units` **Units** Supports all valid Turf [Units][12] (optional, default `'kilometers'`)

### Examples

```javascript
var line = turf.lineString([
    [-77.031669, 38.878605],
    [-77.029609, 38.881946],
    [-77.020339, 38.884084],
    [-77.025661, 38.885821],
    [-77.021884, 38.889563],
    [-77.019824, 38.892368]
]);
var inputPoint = turf.point([-77.037076, 38.884017]);

var snapped = turf.nearestPointOnLine(line, inputPoint, {units: 'miles'});

//addToMap
var addToMap = [line, inputPoint, snapped];
snapped.properties['marker-color'] = '#00f';
```

Returns **[Feature][5]<[Point][8]>** closest point on the `lines` to the `inputPoint`. The point will have the following properties: `lineStringIndex`: closest point was found on the nth LineString (only relevant if input is MultiLineString), `segmentIndex`: closest point was found on nth line segment of the LineString, `totalDistance`: distance along the line from the absolute start of the MultiLineString, `lineDistance`: distance along the line from the start of the LineString where the closest point was found, `segmentDistance`: distance along the line from the start of the line segment where the closest point was found, `pointDistance`: distance to the input point.

## NearestPoint

The subset of `nearestPointOnLine`'s output that the segment helpers below
rely on. Any point returned by [nearestPointOnLine][13] satisfies this.

Type: [Feature][5]<[Point][8], {segmentIndex: [number][10], lineStringIndex: [number][10], : any}>

## resolveLineStringCoords

Resolves the array of coordinates for the LineString on which the nearest
point was found, transparently handling Feature vs Geometry inputs and
MultiLineStrings (via lineStringIndex).

### Parameters

*   `nearestPoint` **[NearestPoint][14]**&#x20;
*   `line` **LineInput**&#x20;

Returns **[Array][9]<[Position][15]>**&#x20;

## atEndOfSegment

Returns true if the nearest point lies exactly on the end vertex of its
segment (i.e. its coordinates equal `coords[segmentIndex + 1]`).

This is useful to restore the previous Turf behaviour of "favouring the next
segment" when the nearest point falls on a shared vertex between two
segments. Combine with [hasNextSegment][3] to decide whether it is safe to
advance `segmentIndex`.

### Parameters

*   `nearestPoint` **[Feature][5]<[Point][8]>** A point returned by [nearestPointOnLine][13]
*   `line` **([Feature][5]<([LineString][6] | [MultiLineString][7])> | [LineString][6] | [MultiLineString][7])** The original line passed to [nearestPointOnLine][13]

Returns **[boolean][16]** true if the point is at the end vertex of its segment

## atEndOfLineString

Returns true if the nearest point lies at the very last vertex of its
LineString. For MultiLineStrings, this checks within the specific
sub-LineString identified by `lineStringIndex`.

### Parameters

*   `nearestPoint` **[Feature][5]<[Point][8]>** A point returned by [nearestPointOnLine][13]
*   `line` **([Feature][5]<([LineString][6] | [MultiLineString][7])> | [LineString][6] | [MultiLineString][7])** The original line passed to [nearestPointOnLine][13]

Returns **[boolean][16]** true if the point is at the end of the LineString

## hasNextSegment

Returns true if there is another segment after the one on which the nearest
point was found, regardless of where on that segment the point landed. Useful
in combination with [atEndOfSegment][1] to determine whether it is safe to
advance to the next segment.

### Parameters

*   `nearestPoint` **[Feature][5]<[Point][8]>** A point returned by [nearestPointOnLine][13]
*   `line` **([Feature][5]<([LineString][6] | [MultiLineString][7])> | [LineString][6] | [MultiLineString][7])** The original line passed to [nearestPointOnLine][13]

Returns **[boolean][16]** true if a next segment exists

[1]: #atendofsegment

[2]: #atendoflinestring

[3]: #hasnextsegment

[4]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-3.1

[5]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-3.2

[6]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-3.1.4

[7]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-3.1.5

[8]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946#section-3.1.2

[9]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[10]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[11]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[12]: https://turfjs.org/docs/api/types/Units

[13]: #nearestpointonline

[14]: #nearestpoint

[15]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Position

[16]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

<!-- This file is automatically generated. Please don't edit it directly. If you find an error, edit the source file of the module in question (likely index.js or index.ts), and re-run "yarn docs" from the root of the turf project. -->

---

This module is part of the [Turfjs project](https://turfjs.org/), an open source module collection dedicated to geographic algorithms. It is maintained in the [Turfjs/turf](https://github.com/Turfjs/turf) repository, where you can create PRs and issues.

### Installation

Install this single module individually:

```sh
$ npm install @turf/nearest-point-on-line
```

Or install the all-encompassing @turf/turf module that includes all modules as functions:

```sh
$ npm install @turf/turf
```
